_episodes/02-setup.md, before:

---
title: "Setting Up"
slug: dirac-version-control-setting-up-git
teaching: 5
exercises: 0
questions:
- "How do I get set up to use Git?"
- "How do I set up my account on GitHub?"
objectives:
- "Configure `git` the first time it is used on a computer"
- "Understand the meaning of the `--global` configuration flag"
- "Add an SSH key to a GitHub account"
keypoints:
- "Use `git config` with the `--global` option to configure a user name, email address, editor, and other preferences once per machine."
- "GitHub needs an SSH key to allow access"
---

> ## Prerequisites
>
> In this lesson we use Git from the Bash Shell.
> Some previous experience with the shell is expected,
> *but isn't mandatory*.
{: .prereq}

## Setting Up Git

**Linux and Mac** users should open a **terminal**, Windows users to should go to the Start Menu open GitBash from the Git group.

The first time we use Git on a new machine, we need to configure a few things.

~~~
$ cd
~~~
{: .language-bash}

Now we're going to set some global options, so when Git starts tracking changes to files it records who made them and how to contact them.

~~~
$ git config --global user.name "Firstname Surname"
$ git config --global user.email "fsurname@university.ac.uk"
~~~
{: .language-bash}

(Please use your own name and the email address you used to sign up to GitHub earlier!)

You can set your favourite text editor, following this table:

| Editor             | Configuration command                            |
|:-------------------|:-------------------------------------------------|
| nano               | `$ git config --global core.editor "nano -w"`    |
| Notepad++ (Win)    | `$ git config --global core.editor "'c:/program files (x86)/Notepad++/notepad++.exe' -multiInst -notabbar -nosession -noPlugin"`|


Git commands are written `git action`, where `action` is what we actually want it to do.
In this case, we're telling Git:

*   our **name** and **email address**,
*   what our favorite **text editor** is, and
*   that we want to use these settings **globally** (i.e., for every project),

The three commands above only need to be **run once**:
the flag `--global` tells Git to use the settings for every project on this machine.

You can check your settings at any time:

~~~
$ git config --list
~~~
{: .language-bash}

> ## Git Help and Manual
>
> If you forget a `git` command, you can access the list of commands by using `-h` and access the Git manual by using `--help` :
>
> ~~~
> $ git config -h
> $ git config --help
> ~~~
> {: .language-bash}
>
> While viewing the manual, remember the `:` is a prompt waiting for commands and you can press <kbd>Q</kbd> to exit the manual.
>
{: .callout}

{% include links.md %}

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ Southampton-RSG-Training/dirac-version-control@7b76a45e67eddb81b3da81c6d1c551a1136283f6 🚀

_episodes/02-setup.md, after:

---
title: "Setting Up"
slug: dirac-version-control-setting-up-git
teaching: 5
exercises: 0
questions:
- "How do I get set up to use Git?"
- "How do I set up my account on GitHub?"
objectives:
- "Configure `git` the first time it is used on a computer"
- "Understand the meaning of the `--global` configuration flag"
- "Add an SSH key to a GitHub account"
keypoints:
- "Use `git config` with the `--global` option to configure a user name, email address, editor, and other preferences once per machine."
- "GitHub needs an SSH key to allow access"
---

> ## Prerequisites
>
> In this lesson we use Git from the Bash Shell.
> Some previous experience with the shell is expected,
> *but isn't mandatory*.
{: .prereq}

## Setting Up Git

We're going to use Git on the command line on our remote server, so we need to connect to it first. 

~~~
$ ssh username@servername
~~~
{: .bash}

The first time we use Git on a new machine, we need to configure it. We're going to set some global options, so when Git starts tracking changes to files it records who made them and how to contact them.

~~~
$ git config --global user.name "Firstname Surname"
$ git config --global user.email "fsurname@university.ac.uk"
~~~
{: .language-bash}

(Please use your own name and the email address you used to sign up to GitHub earlier!)

We're going to set **Nano**, a simple, minimal commaand-line text editor to be the default for when you need to edit messages.
~~~
$ git config --global core.editor "nano -w"`
~~~
{: .language-bash}

If you're already comfortable with another command-line editor, feel free to select that!

Git commands are written `git action`, where `action` is what we actually want it to do. In this case, we're telling Git:

*   our **name** and **email address**,
*   what our favorite **text editor** is, and
*   that we want to use these settings **globally** (i.e., for every project),

The three commands above only need to be **run once**:
the flag `--global` tells Git to use the settings for every project on this machine.

You can check your settings at any time:

~~~
$ git config --list
~~~
{: .language-bash}

> ## Git Help and Manual
>
> If you forget a `git` command, you can access the list of commands by using `-h` and access the Git manual by using `--help` :
>
> ~~~
> $ git config -h
> $ git config --help
> ~~~
> {: .language-bash}
>
> While viewing the manual, remember the `:` is a prompt waiting for commands and you can press <kbd>Q</kbd> to exit the manual.
>
{: .callout}

{% include links.md %}
